README.md, before:

---

## Statement 12/15/2023

This project has reached the status EOL now, which means end-of-life and I close the development.

I have decided not to continue with this project. So there will be **no update to running with PHP8**.
According to my own analysis, the effort required to adapt everything to PHP8 is too extensive for me.
Another reason is the lack of time.
I'm currently tied up in other projects, so I won't be continuing this one anymore, not now - not later.
You can take the code and do it by yourself if needed. Feel free with it. Good luck.

I understand that programming languages always have to evolve.
But I don't have the time or the desire to go through everything again - and I won't start again.
It was a very long way to make this version stable and takes a lot of my spare time.

Thanks again to everyone who supported this project and for using it. I'm out now.

73 Heiko, DL1BZ

---
---

# Dashboard for SVXLINK for public repeaters ###

This is a rework, not fork in the proper sense, based at codebase https://github.com/FM-POLAND/hs_dashboard_pi (created by SP2ONG, SP0DZ).
Many thanks to these guys for their excellent work.

## Preamble

This dashboard is re-designed for use with public repeaters (duplex) in hamradio, less for hotspots (I mean FM-simplex systems, but it works too).
~~Beware, this all is a **work-in-progress** and I will fix things in the code.~~

## Changes from the original
For better use with public repeaters some things are different
- remove audio player and audio stuff complete for saving data rates if the repeater has only a network connection like LTE
- read the most config values now from the svxlink config files automatic
- the visibility and usability of control buttons depend on source network/source IP (private networks or public internet) for making the dashboard accessible from internet (if needed)
- change some status views for more clarity
- add additional functionality for [RepeaterLogic]
- startup check if all required config files are available
- remove most of hard-coded things, which significantly limit the functionality for flexible use
- make the config.php update-safe by add a new user-defined file config.inc.php
- remove all SA818/DRA818 stuff for hotspots, not needed by repeaters
- remove web-editing of svxlink.conf, not a good idea, that was already a dangerous thing with PiStar

## Requirements ##
- installed git support
- a running SVXLINK by SM0SVX https://github.com/sm0svx/svxlink
- a webserver with php7 activated (I recommend lighttpd rather than nginx, development and testing dashboard only with lighttpd too)
- **the webserver needs to be run as user svxlink, otherwise the DTMF controls via webinterface maybe be not working (there are some limitations if using PTYs)**
- activate/install php-curl for read the status from SVXReflector via his API
- **basic knowledge of using and working with Linux :) This piece of software is not plug'n'play !**

Please add 2 new variables in your svxlink.conf:
```
[ReflectorLogic]
...
# set the name of your network
FMNET=FM-Funknetz.de
# set the API access to your SVXReflector
API=https://status.thueringen.link
...
```

### Be aware ! Additional important notice from 01/01/2024:

For the moment please comment out or delete this line in svxlink.conf:
```
[ReflectorLogic]
...
# API=https://status.thueringen.link
...
```

This information came from the main operator of FM-Funknetz.de, that the SVXLINK reflector statuspage https://status.thueringen.link was **deactivated now for public use due to high server load** because of too much status queries.
Up to now we were using also the URL https://status.thueringen.link with this dashboard, but the dashboard can be running without this status page too, only the menu *NODES* will be not available or accessible, because it's making no sense without the status data from reflector.
If the public access will be back later, I don't know it. Please ask only the operators of FM-Funknetz for this and a possible new status URL if all will be available again.

----

It is strongly recommended, for protect the SDCard if using a Raspberry Pi, that the logging from SVXLINK and from the httpd is running at a ramdisk and, if possible, turn off the swap.
**You can change the logpath of SVXLINK** in ``/etc/default/svxlink`` and restart SVXLINK for activation.

A ramdisk can be added in ``/etc/fstab``. For example, add the following line there for a ramdisk with 64MB for new logfile in ``/var/log/dv/svxlink`` :

```
tmpfs           /var/log/dv     tmpfs   nodev,noatime,nosuid,mode=0777,size=64m         0       0
```

## Installation ##

**As I say before, the httpd (webserver) needs to be run as user svxlink, otherwise the DTMF control function via webinterface don't work**.
As default the webserver run as user www-data.
You need to change this in the webserver config file, depend on httpd you use (ngninx, apache2, lighttpd).
The user svxlink is not a privileged user and hasn't root rights. From the view of security this is not a problem, if the httpd/webserver runs as user svxlink.

```
$ cd /var/www
$ sudo mv html html.old
$ sudo git clone https://github.com/dl1bz/svxlinkdb4rptr.git html
$ sudo chown -R svxlink:svxlink html
```

**Important: Start your webbrowser now and access the dashboard like a normal website.**

After that, a new file ``include/config.inc.php`` will be saved, if it not already exists.
Edit this file with your own values. This file is update-safe and will be not overwritten, if you do an update.
```
$ cd /var/www/html/include
$ sudo nano config.inc.php
```

## Update the dashboard ##

If you want to make an update of dashboard **(frequently recommended)**:
```
$ cd /var/www/html
$ sudo git pull
```

After update please look at the ``/var/www/html/include/config.inc.php.example`` if there are new defintions of new functions.
If yes, you need to copy by hand the additional lines to ``/var/www/html/include/config.inc.php``.

If there is an error message like ``fatal: detected dubious ownership in repository at '/var/www/html'`` please do this one time:
```
$ cd /var/www
$ sudo chown -R svxlink:svxlink html
$ sudo git config --global --add safe.directory /var/www/html
```
Then try again:
```
$ cd /var/www/html
$ sudo git pull
```
Now it should be worked correctly.

## Update the TG-List (FM-Funknetz DL only!) ##

You can update the TG-List. At the moment only the [German FM-Funknetz](https://fm-funknetz.de/) is supported.

Requirements:
- installed **python3** and **pip3** (if not pip3 installed, do ``sudo apt-get install python3-pip``)
- installed **html-table-parser for python3** (``sudo pip3 install html-table-parser-python3``)
- installed **sed** (normally part of every Linux distribution)

```
$ cd /var/www/html/scripts
$ sudo ./tgdb_update.sh
```
For automatic update the TG-List you can create a cron job and execute ``tgdb_update.sh`` regularly.

Have fun with SVXLINK Dashboard for repeater !

## Known bugs

**Important: Please use ever the latest version of this package ~~and update regularly~~. ~~I'm constantly working on it and fix bugs.~~**

- I develop this Dashbaord with Raspian light Bullseye/Debian11 and lighttpd as webserver with enabled PHP support 7.x, **PHP >= 8.x NOT supported**, sorry ! ~~**I prepare a new version, which will be running with PHP8 too**. But it need some major code changes for PHP8, please be patient for that.~~
- use a Raspberry Pi >= 2B or higher or similiar clones. Slow systems like Raspberry Pi Zero are NOT supported, because a webserver needs some cpu power for good working
- use ram-disks if possible for running 24/7 to protect the SD card and minimize the I/O cycles at the SD card storage filesystem
- the additional PHP module **php-curl** and **php-xml** need to be installed too, otherwise some functions are not available or don't work
- For the Dashboard we need a SVXLINK managed by systemd (default setup for SVXLINK), older things like init.d are **NOT** supported !
- If httpd is nginx, there are some minor problems around PHP, I recommend use lighttpd as httpd

## Final words for note ##
This program is free software for personal use, but **not for commercial use**; you can redistribute it and/or modify it how you want.
This codebase is ~~a "work in progress"~~ "as is" without any kind of support.
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

73 Heiko, DL1BZ

Commit message:

Update README.md for more clearness that this project is EOL

README.md, after:

---

## Statement 12/15/2023

**This project has reached the status EOL now, which means end-of-life and I close the development.
That means - no support from me and don't ask me anything about it. I will not answer in this case.**

I have decided not to continue with this project. So there will be **no update to running with PHP8**.
According to my own analysis, the effort required to adapt everything to PHP8 is too extensive for me.
Another reason is the lack of time.
I'm currently tied up in other projects, so I won't be continuing this one anymore, not now - not later.
You can take the code and do it by yourself if needed. Feel free with it. Good luck.

I understand that programming languages always have to evolve.
But I don't have the time or the desire to go through everything again - and I won't start again.
It was a very long way to make this version stable and takes a lot of my spare time.

Thanks again to everyone who supported this project and for using it. I'm out now.

73 Heiko, DL1BZ

---
---

# Dashboard for SVXLINK for public repeaters ###

This is a rework, not fork in the proper sense, based at codebase https://github.com/FM-POLAND/hs_dashboard_pi (created by SP2ONG, SP0DZ).
Many thanks to these guys for their excellent work.

## Preamble

This dashboard is re-designed for use with public repeaters (duplex) in hamradio, less for hotspots (I mean FM-simplex systems, but it works too).
~~Beware, this all is a **work-in-progress** and I will fix things in the code.~~

## Changes from the original
For better use with public repeaters some things are different
- remove audio player and audio stuff complete for saving data rates if the repeater has only a network connection like LTE
- read the most config values now from the svxlink config files automatic
- the visibility and usability of control buttons depend on source network/source IP (private networks or public internet) for making the dashboard accessible from internet (if needed)
- change some status views for more clarity
- add additional functionality for [RepeaterLogic]
- startup check if all required config files are available
- remove most of hard-coded things, which significantly limit the functionality for flexible use
- make the config.php update-safe by add a new user-defined file config.inc.php
- remove all SA818/DRA818 stuff for hotspots, not needed by repeaters
- remove web-editing of svxlink.conf, not a good idea, that was already a dangerous thing with PiStar

## Requirements ##
- installed git support
- a running SVXLINK by SM0SVX https://github.com/sm0svx/svxlink
- a webserver with php7 activated (I recommend lighttpd rather than nginx, development and testing dashboard only with lighttpd too)
- **the webserver needs to be run as user svxlink, otherwise the DTMF controls via webinterface maybe be not working (there are some limitations if using PTYs)**
- activate/install php-curl for read the status from SVXReflector via his API
- **basic knowledge of using and working with Linux :) This piece of software is not plug'n'play !**

Please add 2 new variables in your svxlink.conf:
```
[ReflectorLogic]
...
# set the name of your network
FMNET=FM-Funknetz.de
# set the API access to your SVXReflector
API=https://status.thueringen.link
...
```

### Be aware ! Additional important notice from 01/01/2024:

For the moment please comment out or delete this line in svxlink.conf:
```
[ReflectorLogic]
...
# API=https://status.thueringen.link
...
```

This information came from the main operator of FM-Funknetz.de, that the SVXLINK reflector statuspage https://status.thueringen.link was **deactivated now for public use due to high server load** because of too much status queries.
Up to now we were using also the URL https://status.thueringen.link with this dashboard, but the dashboard can be running without this status page too, only the menu *NODES* will be not available or accessible, because it's making no sense without the status data from reflector.
If the public access will be back later, I don't know it. Please ask only the operators of FM-Funknetz for this and a possible new status URL if all will be available again.

----

It is strongly recommended, for protect the SDCard if using a Raspberry Pi, that the logging from SVXLINK and from the httpd is running at a ramdisk and, if possible, turn off the swap.
**You can change the logpath of SVXLINK** in ``/etc/default/svxlink`` and restart SVXLINK for activation.

A ramdisk can be added in ``/etc/fstab``. For example, add the following line there for a ramdisk with 64MB for new logfile in ``/var/log/dv/svxlink`` :

```
tmpfs           /var/log/dv     tmpfs   nodev,noatime,nosuid,mode=0777,size=64m         0       0
```

## Installation ##

**As I say before, the httpd (webserver) needs to be run as user svxlink, otherwise the DTMF control function via webinterface don't work**.
As default the webserver run as user www-data.
You need to change this in the webserver config file, depend on httpd you use (ngninx, apache2, lighttpd).
The user svxlink is not a privileged user and hasn't root rights. From the view of security this is not a problem, if the httpd/webserver runs as user svxlink.

```
$ cd /var/www
$ sudo mv html html.old
$ sudo git clone https://github.com/dl1bz/svxlinkdb4rptr.git html
$ sudo chown -R svxlink:svxlink html
```

**Important: Start your webbrowser now and access the dashboard like a normal website.**

After that, a new file ``include/config.inc.php`` will be saved, if it not already exists.
Edit this file with your own values. This file is update-safe and will be not overwritten, if you do an update.
```
$ cd /var/www/html/include
$ sudo nano config.inc.php
```

## Update the dashboard ##

If you want to make an update of dashboard **(frequently recommended)**:
```
$ cd /var/www/html
$ sudo git pull
```

After update please look at the ``/var/www/html/include/config.inc.php.example`` if there are new defintions of new functions.
If yes, you need to copy by hand the additional lines to ``/var/www/html/include/config.inc.php``.

If there is an error message like ``fatal: detected dubious ownership in repository at '/var/www/html'`` please do this one time:
```
$ cd /var/www
$ sudo chown -R svxlink:svxlink html
$ sudo git config --global --add safe.directory /var/www/html
```
Then try again:
```
$ cd /var/www/html
$ sudo git pull
```
Now it should be worked correctly.

## Update the TG-List (FM-Funknetz DL only!) ##

You can update the TG-List. At the moment only the [German FM-Funknetz](https://fm-funknetz.de/) is supported.

Requirements:
- installed **python3** and **pip3** (if not pip3 installed, do ``sudo apt-get install python3-pip``)
- installed **html-table-parser for python3** (``sudo pip3 install html-table-parser-python3``)
- installed **sed** (normally part of every Linux distribution)

```
$ cd /var/www/html/scripts
$ sudo ./tgdb_update.sh
```
For automatic update the TG-List you can create a cron job and execute ``tgdb_update.sh`` regularly.

Have fun with SVXLINK Dashboard for repeater !

## Known bugs

**Important: Please use ever the latest version of this package ~~and update regularly~~. ~~I'm constantly working on it and fix bugs.~~**

- I develop this Dashbaord with Raspian light Bullseye/Debian11 and lighttpd as webserver with enabled PHP support 7.x, **PHP >= 8.x NOT supported**, sorry ! ~~**I prepare a new version, which will be running with PHP8 too**. But it need some major code changes for PHP8, please be patient for that.~~
- use a Raspberry Pi >= 2B or higher or similiar clones. Slow systems like Raspberry Pi Zero are NOT supported, because a webserver needs some cpu power for good working
- use ram-disks if possible for running 24/7 to protect the SD card and minimize the I/O cycles at the SD card storage filesystem
- the additional PHP module **php-curl** and **php-xml** need to be installed too, otherwise some functions are not available or don't work
- For the Dashboard we need a SVXLINK managed by systemd (default setup for SVXLINK), older things like init.d are **NOT** supported !
- If httpd is nginx, there are some minor problems around PHP, I recommend use lighttpd as httpd

## Final words for note ##
This program is free software for personal use, but **not for commercial use**; you can redistribute it and/or modify it how you want.
This codebase is ~~a "work in progress"~~ "as is" without any kind of support.
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

73 Heiko, DL1BZ
